Hon.
 Lukman Olumo is the member representing Ajeromi/Ifelodun Constituency 1
 in the Lagos State House of Assembly. He says he is passionate about 
extending the dividends of democracy to his people. In a recent 
interview, Olumo stated that he has been reaching out to his people for 
many years, but that the process is taking a new dimension now that he 
is occupying a political office. PATRICK OKOHUE reports. *********Besides making laws, how are you getting dividends of democracy across to your people in Ajeromi/Ifelodun? It  is a usual thing that we do. Prior to being elected as a lawmaker, it  was my usual habit to empower my people. I saw a gap in the system. The  local government chairmen used to give UTME Forms, GCE Forms and all  that to students. But other students in higher institutions of learning  looked up to the state government for bursary awards, but in the last  three years not many of them have been able to enjoy that. So I decided  to support undergraduates in the colleges of education, polytechnics and  the universities with a token. We empowered about 100 of them with  N20,000 each, which was a novel idea. I was discussing with a local  government chairman, who said that this was a noble idea and that he has  provided for such in this year’s budget. These are the things that we  do to ensure that our constituents get dividends of democracy. AIG orders arrest of killer of footballer in Ogun I
 have also facilitated a lot of projects into my constituency. We have 
many canals in my constituency, System 5 is one of them, we have Baale 
Okoya Canal, Signal Barracks Canal, and many of them. They had not been 
touched in the last 12 years or so, but many of them are being repaired 
now and massive works are going on there. The Speaker of the House, Rt. 
Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa gave us an opportunity to talk about our 
environment and we have a listening Governor in the state. My 
constituency is a beehive of activities now. Machines are working and 
everybody is happy. ***********How are you ensuring sustainability of your empowerment projects? I
 call them “Koko Scholars.” I had been doing it in the past, but it had 
not been brought into the limelight. I had been doing it for them over 
the years.  Now, I decided to do it in a big way and I said I wanted to 
support them so that when they grow up they too would know how to 
support others. Its
 not only students, we gave some artisans driers and other machine 
tools. We are just trying to imbibe a culture of giving in our people 
and they appreciate that gesture. ***********Giving back to your constituents, how would you situate this with your duties as a lawmaker? Giving
 back to the people has always been part of me. As a politician, I feel 
that the people must feel my impact and they have been doing this since 
the last 23 years in terms of giving back to the people. I support them 
in many areas and they call me “Koko” in that area. Koko means important
 or someone that is valuable. This does not disturb my duties in the 
House, I am the Chairman of the Public Private Partnership (PPP) in the 
Assembly. In the last few months that I got into office, I have been 
able to co-sponsor motions, I sponsored the motion on Gas Explosion and I
 have more than five other motions that I have prepared that would soon 
see the light of the day. ***********This has shown your level of preparation for the job, but what prepared you for this position? You
 are very correct, because this is not my first time of aspiring for the
 office to serve them at this level. I have taken time to understudy how
 to be a legislator, I understudied those who were there before. It’s a 
lot of work to be there. Doing the two does not give me headache, we are
 just starting. ***********What do you see as the greatest skill that you need since you got into the House? In
 the course of speaking on Amotekun Bill that we considered today, I 
said that some leaders are made, while some are born. Our Speaker, Rt. 
Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa is one of them. In trying to settle down for 
this job, he gave us the opportunity, and exposed us to trainings. We 
went through several trainings that prepared us for the job, so I give 
it to him for being my pillar and support. I have other senior 
colleagues such as Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu, Hon. Rotimi Olowo and my 
colleague, Hon. Temitope Adewale. They have giving me that support, even
 the Majority Leader, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade. I also give it to the civil 
servants that work in the House. If you give them assignments they are 
ready to do it. When you have such a cozy environment, you have a 
comfortable office and tools to work with, you have mentors to learn 
from, except you are lazy, you will excel.